Humans explored a sizable portion of the galaxy and have even colonized a few dozen planets and moons whether they were terraformed or initially habitable. There are also hundreds of stations of various sizes distributed throughout many of these same star systems. Lastly there is one tremendous ring colony orbiting a G-type main-sequence star. This colony is the prime achievement of humankind and serves as the "human capital of the universe".

Humanity has discovered ways to safely create and store mass amounts of antimatter for power generation. They've also invented the warp drive and very recently discovered how to extend their warp capabilities to travel unimaginable distances. The greatest challenge to interstellar/intergalactic travel has become finding safe routes to warp through without interruption.

They've also discovered a way to clone organisms very precisely. In doing so they discovered several other things. They found that consciousness consists of an arrangement of dark matter. They pressed on to learn how to manipulate dark matter and discovered a lot of physics beyond the standard model. They eventually learned how to copy consciousness, but found out that consciousness is not the whole picture. The clone was alive and had the same memories as the original but was not the same person. The clones ended up being more of a robot or a husk of the original with no sense of morality. This will be the antagonist of the story. The part responsible for morality and decision-making (the soul) was something else entirely and remained a mystery. A little bit of the mystery was revealed when the humans discovered that they could "move the soul" ~~if the original consciousness was entangled with the cloned consciousness. If the original person expired, the clone would would be in the opposite quantum state and the soul somehow transferred to the new body.~~ *Use tachyons instead?* Testing revealed that the transmission of the soul is seemingly instantaneous, so if the person expires, the clone immediately wakes up. This discovery was an inflection point for the human race as it effectively made humans (and any other creatures they choose) immortal.

However, there is heavy debate as to whether immortalizing oneself through cloning is a violation of the laws of nature. A lot of religious groups have taken a stand against it saying that it is a defiance of God.

*Instead of this, use alternate monetary system? Money doesn't exist? Jobs provide some other value to the worker?*
In addition, the cost of cloning and entanglement make it inaccessible to those with low income, so there is the moral question of only allowing higher income people to essentially live forever should they choose. Insurance companies won't cover the cost because they are not allowed to discriminate who they pay for. On one hand, allowing someone to live forever would allow them to profit more from premiums. On the other hand, someone who requires a lot of coverage due to genetic conditions could cost the insurance company a lot of money... forever. The risk for insurance is too high to justify the cost.

Humanity has also discovered how to extend a single human life indefinitely, barring life-threatening disease, through the study of epigenetics. There are a variety of options available, ranging from supplements to gene therapy. To reduce the need for age reversal, there are also lifestyle changes that can be made to slow aging ranging from dietary changes to living environment.
